This anthology, I take it, is the first edition, the first
gathering together of the body of the literature and art of the
humanist thinkers of the world. As well done as it has been
done, it will be better done in the future. There will be much
adding, there will be a little subtracting, in the succeeding
editions that are bound to come. The result will be a monument
of the ages, and there will be none fairer.

Since reading of the Bible, the Koran, and the Talmud has
enabled countless devout and earnest right-seeking souls to be
stirred and uplifted to higher and finer planes of thought and
action, then the reading of this humanist Holy Book cannot fail
similarly to serve the needs of groping, yearning humans who
seek to discern truth and justice amid the dazzle and murk of
the thought-chaos of the present-day world.

No person, no matter how soft and secluded his own life has
been, can read this Holy Book and not be aware that the
world is filled with a vast mass of unfairness, cruelty, and
suffering. He will find that it has been observed, during
all the ages, by the thinkers, the seers, the poets, and the
philosophers.

And such person will learn, possibly, that this fair world
so brutally unfair, is not decreed by the will of God nor by
any iron law of Nature. He will learn that the world can be
fashioned a fair world indeed by the humans who inhabit it, by
the very simple, and yet most difficult process of coming to
an understanding of the world. Understanding, after all, is
merely sympathy in its fine correct sense. And such sympathy,
in its genuineness, makes toward unselfishness. Unselfishness
the entire vexatious problem of man.

He, who by understanding becomes converted to the gospel of
service, will serve truth to confute liars and make of them
truth-tellers; will serve kindness so that brutality will
perish; will serve beauty to the erasement of all that is not
beautiful. And he who is strong will serve the weak that they
may become strong. He will devote his strength, not to the
debasement and defilement of his weaker fellows, but to the
making of opportunity for them to make themselves into men
rather than into slaves and beasts.

One has but to read the names of the men and women whose
words burn in these pages, and to recall that by far more
than average intelligence have they won to their place in
the world's eye and in the world's brain long after the dust
of them has vanished, to realize that due credence must be
placed in their report of the world herein recorded. They were
not tyrants and wastrels, hypocrites and liars, brewers and
gamblers, market-riggers and stock-brokers. They were givers
and servers, and seers and humanists. They were unselfish. They
conceived of life, not in terms of profit, but of service.

Life tore at them with its heart-break. They could not escape
the hurt of it by selfish refuge in the gluttonies of brain
and body. They saw, and steeled themselves to see, clear-eyed
and unafraid. Nor were they afflicted by some strange myopia.
They all saw the same thing. They are all agreed upon what they
saw. The totality of their evidence proves this with unswerving
consistency. They have brought the report, these commissioners
of humanity. It is here in these pages. It is a true report.

But not merely have they reported the human ills. They have
proposed the remedy. And their remedy is of no part of all
the jangling sects. It has nothing to do with the complicated
metaphysical processes by which one may win to other worlds
and imagined gains beyond the sky. It is a remedy for this
world, since worlds must be taken one at a time. And yet, that
not even the jangling sects should receive hurt by the making
fairer of this world for this own world's sake, it is well, for
all future worlds of them that need future worlds, that their
splendor be not tarnished by the vileness and ugliness of this
world.

It is so simple a remedy, merely service. Not one ignoble
thought or act is demanded of any one of all men and women in
the world to make fair the world. The call is for nobility of
thinking, nobility of doing. The call is for service, and, such
is the wholesomeness of it, he who serves all, best serves
himself.

Times change, and men's minds with them. Down the past,
civilizations have exposited themselves in terms of power, of
world-power or of other-world power. No civilization has yet
exposited itself in terms of love-of-man. The humanists have no
quarrel with the previous civilizations. They were necessary
in the development of man. But their purpose is fulfilled, and
they may well pass, leaving man to build the new and higher
civilization that will exposit itself in terms of love and
service and brotherhood.

To see gathered here together this great body of human beauty
and fineness and nobleness is to realize what glorious humans
have already existed, do exist, and will continue increasingly
to exist until all the world beautiful be made over in their
image. We know how gods are made. Comes now the time to make a
world.